In radio communication, a control channel is a central channel that controls other constituent radios by handling data streams. It is most often used in the context of a trunked radio system, where the control channel sends various data which coordinates users in talkgroups.


 A transmission channel or subchannel that has the bandwidth necessary to carry human voice.


Path loss, or path attenuation, is the reduction in power density of an electromagnetic wave as it propagates through space. Path loss is a major component in the analysis and design of the link budget of a telecommunication system. This term is commonly used in wireless communications and signal propagation.


 Clusters often contain seven cells, but other configurations are possible. The larger the number of cells in the cluster, the greater the distance needed between cells sharing the same frequencies.
The factor N is called the cluster size and is typically equal to 4, 7, or 12. If the cluster size N is reduced while the cell size is kept constant, more clusters are required to cover a given area, and hence more capacity (a larger value of C) is achieved.


Blocking probability is the chance that a customer will be denied service due to lack of resources. A blocking probability of 0.01 means 1% of customers will be denied service.


The Fraunhofer distance, named after Joseph von Fraunhofer, is the value of: is the wavelength of the radio wave. This distance provides the limit between the near and far field.


d = 2D^2/lamda 
where D is the largest dimension of the radiator (in the case of a magnetic loop antenna, the diameter) and {\lambda } is the wavelength of the radio wave.


Frequency deviation is used in FM radio to describe the difference between the minimum or maximum extent of a frequency modulated signal, and the nominal center or carrier frequency.


Frequency deviation in FM is defined as the way to describe the difference between the minimum and maximum extent of a frequency modulated signal and the carrier frequency.